(air whooshing)
We need a whole bunch of data in here,
and I could tell you to click and upload all you want,
but it's worth having seed data for when you're working with
especially I found this all the time
when you're debugging things that delete items,
it gets really frustrating
when you spend all this time to upload like 12 items
and then you debug it and delete them,
and then your bug is not fixed
but you have no more items to delete
so you have to add more just to test the deletion mutation.
So we are going to write a little script
or I've already written a little script for you
but I'm gonna show you how to hook it up with seed data,
so if we open up our keystone.ts file
you'll see that we have our,
where's our database connection?
Here we go, add data seeding here,
okay, we're gonna do that now,
so the database has an on the connect function
that we can hook into, and we can just console.log
connected to the database and now when we run that,
kill it and started again
we should see as soon as Keystone connects to the database
we should see that it logs connected to the database,
there we go, so that means it's successfully connected
to the database, so what we can do,
is say once you've connected to the database
just inject all of these items straight away
into the database, so what we'll do,
is first we'll mark that as a sync
and then it also gives us access
to the entire Keystone value here,
and there is, if you take a look at the folder here,
I think it's in, where is it?
Lib no seed data in data.ts,
there's just some very basic data
that I've put in there for you,
and then in index.ts, this is a function
that here I can all read,
read through it with you really quickly,
so it console logs, inserting products,
we are grabbing the Keystone MongooseAdapter
and we're injecting this straight into the database
and we're not using GraphQL or anything like that,
so if you're using a different database
you might have to adapt that,
then we do is loop over every single product
that's in our products
and then we simply just take the product image,
create the image,
and then create the product for that, right?
We're doing the relationships here,
then we're done and we exit and we can start it again.
So we can go back to our Keystone here and we will await,
it's called insert seed data
and we'll have to auto import that sucker,
it didn't work, did it?
Well, that worked, that worked,
why is it telling us expected an argument Keystone
was not provided, oh yeah,
we forgot to pass the argument Keystone,
there we go, thank you, TypeScript,
there's another real benefit of using TypeScript,
is it sort of just yelled at you
before we tried to run it,
now, we don't wanna do that every single time,
what we wanna do is we only wanna do it,
when somebody passes an argument
to Keystone when they run it,
so what we'll do here is we'll say,
if process.argv.includes--seed-data
then we will run await insert seed data,
and the way that we run that,
if we take a look at our package json,
if we basically just run npm run seed data
it just runs the same Keystone function here,
but with --seed data,
sorry, if you hear my kids screaming in the background,
hey, guys I'm recording,
all right, they settled down,
okay, so the way that we run that is just kill your build
and then run npm run, actually before we even do this,
let's take a look at our MongoDB Compass
and I'm gonna go into my database
which is I'm gonna click this little refresh button
and you see that sickfits showed up in the side bar here,
and we see productimages, products and users,
those are our three data types,
you clicked through to products
and you see this as our one test product in there,
so now when we run npm run seed data, there we go,
boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, done,
inserted 12 products, if we refresh on our database
you'll see that the products are all here,
and now if we refresh our Keystone Admin,
oh, obviously won't work 'cause we have to run it,
so npm run dev and we have all of the images showing up,
there was one little issue in that,
they actually aren't showing up,
(laughing),
but it's gonna be fine, I'll explain why it's not working
and this won't be an issue for yours
is that if you click through to one of these,
you'll see that the image is broken
and if you inspect image on that and grab the URL
you'll see it is broken
and that's because I'm doing this tutorial
with Wes Bos tutorial,
what I uploaded it with was Wes Bos,
so likely your name is also gonna be different
and it's gonna be broken for you,
so is that a big deal?
No, and I'll show you why, because it doesn't change it,
how it outputs it in the API Explorer,
so if we click on here and you go to API Explorer here,
and if you want, let's write a query here,
so a query all product images and for each product image
we want the id, let's just run it,
boom, so we've got a list of all the images
that we've uploaded and then inside of that,
we want the, what is it?
The image and inside of the image
you can get all kinds of information, the encoding,
if you're wondering what the possible options are,
you can just hit Control+Space
and it'll show you all of them,
you can also go into the docs look for all product images
or just product image
and it will show you all of the fields that are available,
in our case we want the public URL
or the public URL transformed, so let's try that,
let's just say, public URL and public URL transformed,
run it and look, we got them all here,
and you'll see that they are matching up with Wes Bos
and Wes Bos tutorial
and that's just because the seed data that I've given you
is from two different accounts
and likely it's gonna be a different account
'cause you have your own account, so they still work,
so if you visit one of these,
this is one we uploaded from Keystone, it works
and then if you also wanna pull one from,
from my personal account, that one also works,
so no sweat there.
So that is seed data, that's how get it,
you can certainly also if you're curious yourself
you could upload 15 or 20 product images that you like
and then you could go into MongoDB Compass
and export them, and you can export it right here,
select which fields you want and you could do a little dump
and then put that data in your own thing,
so you can just automate importing that,
but that's a pretty handy thing to have,
that is seed data in Keystone, let's get into the next one.